Updates to getInstalledRelatedApps for m81 and 82 (#2290)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/get-installed-related-apps/index.md

  </figcaption>
</figure>

> The [`getInstalledRelatedApps()`][spec] makes it possible for a page to check if

Reviewer: `spec` should probably point to https://wicg.github.io/get-installed-related-apps/spec/ now rather than the github repo

Author: Updated

your native app, or Progressive Web App (PWA) is installed on a user's device.

It allows you to customize the user experience if your app is already
installed. For example, if the PWA is already installed, redirecting the user
from a product marketing page directly into it. Centralizing some functionality
like notifications in the native app to prevent duplicate notifications. Or,
if your native app is already installed, not

> [promoting the installation](/customize-install/) of you PWA.

Author: Updated.

</string>
```

Finally, publish your updated Android app to the Play store.

### Define the relationship to an installed PWA {: #relationship-web }

{% Aside %}
**Coming Soon!**

> Expected in Chrome 81, websites can check if their PWA, served from the same

Reviewer 2: 81 beta is already out. It seems like we'd know already if this were shipping.

Reviewer: Yes it is, you can try it out on backgroundfetch.com after installing the WebAPK

Reviewer 2: Please change to 'Starting in Chrome 81'.

> domain is installed.

Reviewer: It's not quite any WebAPK on the domain. You can only check for WebAPKs that control the page (the page includes a link to the manifest). Domains can have multiple WebAPKs that control different pages (different scopes).

Author: To make sure I understand this properly:

In Chrome 81:
* www.example.com/pwa/ (has manifest) **can** test www.example.com/pwa/
* www.example.com/marketing/ (no manifest) **cannot** test for www.example.com/pwa/

In Chrome 82:
* www.example.com/pwa/ (has manifest) **can** test www.example.com/pwa/
* www.example.com/marketing/ (no manifest) **can** test for www.example.com/pwa/ **if** the `assetlinks.json` file is present.

Is that correct?

Reviewer: Yes, except for one minor detail, which is that to check for the related apps you must always have a manifest, since the list of related apps come from the manifest.

The reason for this is that example.com/maps PWA shouldn't have implicit permission for example.com/photos PWA, which is conceptually a different thing.

Author: Thanks - I've updated the messaging to be more clear about scope.

Microsoft is actively working on enabling this API for Edge and we hope to
see it land around Edge 82.
{% endAside %}

To define the relationship to an installed PWA, add a `related_applications`
entry in the web app manifest, set `"platform": "webapp"` and provide
the full path to the PWAs web app manifest in the `url` property.

```json/3-4
{
  …
  "related_applications": [{
    "platform": "webapp",
    "url": "https://app.example.com/manifest.json",
  }],
  …
}
```

#### PWA served from a different domain

{% Aside %}
**Coming Soon!**
Starting in Chrome 82, websites can check if their PWA, served from the same,

> or different domain is installed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to detecting if their PWA is served from the same domain, 
Chrome 82 lets websites check if their PWA is served from a different domain.
```

Reviewer 2: I thought, "didn't I just read this" and had to scroll back up to see what's different. Yes, my suggestions violates "Express coordinate ideas in similar form." However, breaking the rule to clarify what's different.

> Chrome 82 lets websites check if their PWA is served from a different domain.

Reviewer: re: the comment above. This is for different PWAs

Microsoft is actively working on enabling this API for Edge and we hope to
see it land around Edge 82.
{% endAside %}

If the PWA you're testing for lives on a different domain, for instance
`example.com` wants to check if the PWA served from `app.example.com` is
installed, you'll also need to define the relationship between the two sites.

> Add an `assetslink.json` file to the [`/.well-known/`][well-known]

Reviewer 2: It has to be called `/.well-known`?

Why should I already know about that?

Author: Yes, it needs to be in the `/.well-known/` directory, which itself likely isn't well known. That's why I included the link to the well-known spec.

Reviewer: this should be `assetlinks.json`

Author: Fixed

directory of the domain where the PWA lives (`app.example.com`). In the `site`
property, provide the full path to the web app manifest from the other site.

```json
// Served from https://app.example.com/.well-known/assetlinks.json
{
  "relation": ["delegate_permission/common.query_webapk"],
  "target": {
    "namespace": "web",
    "site": "https://example.com/manifest.json"
  }
}
```

## Test for the presence of your installed app {: #use }

Once you've [defined the relationship](define-relationship) to your other apps,

> you can check for the presence of your apps within your web site. Calling

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
you can check for their presence within your web site. Calling
```

}
```

#### PWA served from a different location

{% Aside %}
**Coming Soon!**
Starting in Chrome 82, a page can check if its PWA is installed, even if it
is outside the scope of the PWA. Microsoft is actively working on enabling
this API for Edge and we hope to see it land around Edge 82.
{% endAside %}

A page can check if its PWA is installed, even if it is outside the
[scope][scope] of the PWA. For instance, `www.example.com` wants to check if
its PWA served from `app.example.com` is installed. Or a page under
`/about/` to check if the PWA served from `/app/` is already installed.

> First, add a web app manifest that includes the `related_applications` property

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable this, first add a web app manifest that includes the `related_applications` property
```

> ([as indicated above](#relationship-web)) to the page that will check if it's

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
([as indicated above](#relationship-web)) to the page that will check if its
```

Author: I f'ing hate apostrophes! I thought I got them all right this time. :) Oh well.

Reviewer 2: There's a simple trick. Say or think the expanded contraction in the whole sentence. If "it is" sounds wrong, you don't need the apostrophe.
